SILVER LEAF FESTIVAL
[indistinct chatter]
[door opens]
How's Akagi?
She seems to be doing better.
They said she'll be okay
with a bit of rest.
Kamisato.
Can I ask
how you feel about Akagi?
What? Why?
I mean, Akagi is so serious
that it makes you worry, right?
She wants to help people.
So she's aspiring
to become a nurse.
And she's very active
in volunteer work.
Yeah
Although I did think it was
all for appearances at first.
Appearances?
You know them
people that act
like they're doing things
-to dress themselves up...
-[cell phone vibrates]
but in actuality
They brag about their lives
to cover that up.
The type with business cards.
But Ikumi is different.
She doesn't do
these things to brag
and it's not so she can
get the upper hand.
She really is trying
to be of help for someone.
And it's kind of creepy
sometimes.
[cell phone vibrates]
Chiharu is bugging me
about coming back
so I'm gonna leave.
Feel free to do whatever.
Can I trust you
to watch over Ikumi?
Believe me, Kamisato
I'm sure Akagi will contact you
like she did earlier.
I'm asking because
she never calls for help
when she's in real trouble.
[♪ opening theme song playing]
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF SANTA CLAUS
YOU AND I
WITHIN THE REALM OF MEMORIES
[struggling grunts]
[knock at door]
[SAKUTA] Akagi, can I come in?
[IKUMI] Yeah.
Want me to help?
Or I can call Kamisato back
if you'd like.
It's fine. Yes, please.
[SAKUTA] I'm gonna unzip it.
♪
[soft gasp]
Thank you.
Is there anything else
you need help with?
If I need any more
I'm gonna change
[SAKUTA] What I saw earlier
that wasn't an illness, was it?
[IKUMI] It's like a ghost story
you'd see on TV
as a kid, right?
A poltergeist
It happens every so often.
But don't worry about me.
I can take care
of fixing it myself.
So you know how to fix it
but the problem
hasn't been resolved yet.
I take it that means
the solution isn't an easy one.
[IKUMI]You're right.
It isn't easy...
to forget you, Azusagawa.
[soft gasp]
Honestly, it's quite difficult.
You think this has
nothing to do with you?
Uh... Why am I to blame here?
You really don't remember
anything about that day.
That was a bit suggestive
and annoying of me.
Okay, why don't we
have a contest?
Will I be the one who forgets
about you first, Azusagawa?
Or will you
remember what happened
that day before me?
If I play along
If you do manage to remember
my puberty syndrome
Well, you should know
remembering important things
is sort of my specialty.
I'm glad
you have the motivation now.
If you do end up the winner
I don't think I'll have to rely
on the Dreaming tag ever again.
What kind of logic is that?
Are you saying you searched
for #Dreaming post
to help people out?
Also, that you can
finally forget about me
and recover
from puberty syndrome?
And that's why
no matter what you tell me
I should do
I just can't stop.
[sighs] Well
what do you need me
to do for you?
You don't have to do anything.
If all goes well
I'd have forgotten
all about you by that point.
So, please, from now on
We can start right now.
Ready?
Go.
[indistinct chatter]
Bye now. I have to get back
to the flea market
-and help the kids.
-Yeah.
[KANO] Big brother!
[panting]
I'm glad I was able to find you.
You took so long that everyone
started to get worried.
I'm sorry, Kano. I didn't mean
to trouble everyone.
It's fine.
That just now
was Ms. Ikumi, wasn't it?
Hold on. Do you know her, Kano?
Yeah. I go to the same
high school she went to.
It was a short while
when we were preparing
for the sports festival.
Oh. So what kind of person
was Akagi like in high school?
What kind of person was she?
Oh. Before I answer
let me contact Kae
and tell her I found you.
Until the spring I entered
she was the student council
president at our high school.
Ms. Ikumi was super active
in local volunteer work too.
So she's always been like that.
Huh?
Even now, she founded
her own volunteer organization
to assist kids
who refuse to attend class.
That's so like Ms. Ikumi.
[KANO] She's always
the first one
to do things that people think
"I wish someone else
would do this."
That's why everyone says
she's amazing.
I guess that means Akagi had
a fulfilling high school life
-am I right?
-[sighs]
Am I wrong?
I can only tell you
about the rumors I've heard.
But is that okay?
[indistinct chatter]
Want some?
Sure, I'll have some.
Were you able
to check in with Akagi?
I did.
Apparently, back in high school
Akagi had a boyfriend
who was older
and she'd commute to school
from his place every day.
Story is
and was called to
the counselor's office
multiple times
throughout the year.
Did you hear that story
from her directly?
No. I was told
that it's only a rumor.
That's pretty different
from the way you described Akagi
to me the other day.
Yeah.
And now I think I understand her
even less than I did before.
NOVEMBER 7TH
YOKOHAMA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
[SAKUTA] That's the one
for your university, right?
You taking
the entrance exams again?
My cram school student is.
Would that student
happen to be the underclassmen
that Kunimi was talking about?
Right. Toranosuke Kasai.
Did you ask why he's applying?
He said he felt like it.
Hmm.
By the way, in our society
it's a common theory
that poltergeists are caused
by unstable emotions
during puberty.
So that means puberty syndrome
has existed
in every generation, huh?
Well, I can't say much
with the information
you just shared.
There are too many
vague elements.
Yeah, but the physical anomalies
are closest to Kaede's case
don't you think?
It's not like
there are any scars
left behind on her body
On her back.
There were some claw marks
like she had scratched
around her shoulder blades.
You saw that?
When I helped her get undressed.
I just unzipped the back zipper
on her dress., okay?
Really? Can you tell
Sakurajima that too?
Please keep it a secret for me?
Come on. I'd really like
a response here, you know?
[sighs]
If even you can't figure it out
Although, if there really are
no lies in her stories
there is one thing
I can surmise from all of this.
Oh, and what's that?
That's very unlike you.
You still haven't noticed?
Noticed what?
That girl was in love
with you, Azusagawa.
And she wants to
forget about it.
But nothing's ever happened
between me and Akagi.
I hear there are
some girls in this world
that will fall head over heels
over one Choco-Cornet.
It's awfully convincing
coming from you, Futaba.
I would suggest you hurry up
and remember for her already
before her ghost
comes after you.
Hmm.
[keyboard tapping]
#DREAMING
[sighs]
NOVEMBER 8TH
Hello and welcome.
You can sit wherever you'd like.
[SAKUTA] By the way, Koga.
What's up?
You know about that
Dreaming tag thing, don't you?
Wait, isn't that a bit old?
As an expert
in seeing the future
what do you think?
Hmm. I have
a pretty bad feeling about it.
Does that mean
you experienced it as well?
No, it wasn't me.
But one of Nana's dreams
became reality.
It was this one
where a boy and his friends
-approached me at the beach.
-And then?
In the end
Huh?
It was just some guy who Nana
went to middle school with.
Was it shocking Yoneyama managed
to get a date before you?
What?
No, that isn't the case at all.
Just don't rush yourself
and go out
with some weird guy, okay?
Uh... Huh?
What's this, Sakuta?
'Grats on your acceptance.
I still haven't been
accepted yet, though.
You applied
for priority admission
-through school rec, right?
-Well, yeah, but--
Then if you already have
the recommendation
are you planning
to invalidate it?
No, of course I'm not!
Well, then that makes you
a certified college girl, Koga.
Mm.
Can I open it?
[squeals]
I've been wanting these!
Were they expensive?
I talked to Zukki
and she gave me a pair.
She told me
she received some extra ones.
I told her it was a friend's
college acceptance gift.
Thanks so much, Sakuta.
Ms. Tomobe.
Sakuta. It's been a while.
Did you come over to see
how Kaede is doing?
I was in the area, so why not?
Whenever I see Kaede
I find myself
being cheered up as well.
Well, it's all
thanks to you, ma'am.
How is university going, Sakuta?
Oh, you know
By the way
have you seen Ms. Akagi
on campus?
Huh?
Wait, Ms. Tomobe
why do you know about Akagi?
It hasn't been that long
since I first
got to know Akagi.
But she's a very serious
and smart girl.
I wonder
if she actually realizes
there are other people
who see her in that light.
I know.
It's like she seems
to find a sense of satisfaction
being that way.
Since she created
her volunteer group last month
I've been coming by to help out
whenever I'm able to
and during my time there
I heard about what
middle school she attended.
Did Akagi say anything about me?
Did something happen
between you two?
No, not really.
But I was told
by one of Akagi's friends
that she's been acting
a bit out of character lately.
If Akagi was worried
about something
what do you think it could be?
Well, if I really had to guess
being in love with someone
[sighs] Can you think
of anything else?
Huh. What else? Let's see.
What is it?
Maybe she just didn't want
to see you after what happened.
I think the fact that
she wasn't able to save you
was possibly the biggest setback
Akagi has ever faced.
Perhaps she still regrets that
and carries those feelings
to this day.
Um, Ms. Tomobe...
Hmm?
There's a favor I'd like to ask.
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF SANTA CLAUS
NOVEMBER 12TH
[ALL] Bye, Ms. Ikumi.
See you next time.
Yeah. Take care.
[receding footsteps]
[sighs]
You must be upset the tour
request was from Sakuta.
I'm sorry I kept it from you.
No. Don't worry, Ms. Tomobe.
You did nothing wrong.
Oh.
Will you two be okay
if I leave you alone here?
Yes. Thank you again
for everything today.
[TOMOBE] See you next week.
[receding footsteps]
Akagi, are you angry?
[IKUMI] We are in the middle
of a contest, are we not?
If you keep showing up
around me like this
then I won't ever
be able to forget you.
You got something after this?
You sure have sharp eyes
Are you heading to Yokosuka
to protect the lost little girl
or are you gonna stop
the train accident?
Oh, and there's a stolen bike
out there, too, right?
So you looked it up.
Be realistic.
You can't go after all of them.
How many more people
do you need to save
before your regrets fade away?
Did you... remember?
I was thinking
you might be regretting
how you couldn't save me
back in middle school
and are holding on
to that feeling to this day.
I couldn't...
[whimpering]
[gasps, groans]
[gasps] Akagi?
[IKUMI] Again...
But it's still early in the day.
Akagi. Let me see.
BE WARY OF HIM
YOU OKAY OVER THERE?
SORRY ABOUT THE SPRAIN
[gasps]
Let me go.
When you get involved
So it's true. I am to blame.
Perhaps you also know what that
poltergeist is about as well.
If I told you that
[MAN] Ikumi.
I already told you
Please. I was just hoping that
you'd hear me out this time.
I have something to do
right now.
I'm sorry.
[sighs]
Oh. By chance
We were dating for about a year
back when
she was in high school.
[SAKUTA] You heard about me
from Akagi?
[MAN] Yeah. She showed me
her school yearbook
when we were together.
She told me a bit of the story
about what happened in class
at that time.
You know, she seemed to be
awfully worried about you.
Why did the two of you break up?
Well, uh, I was so busy
trying to find a job last year.
I didn't have enough in me
to be considerate to her.
I applied for 50 companies
and I got rejected
by all of them.
And even through all of that
She'd always come over
and she'd iron the shirts
I'd wear to the interviews.
And when I left
for an interview
she never said, "Do your best."
Not even once.
I guess
she didn't want to pressure me.
That all sounds nice.
So I'm not really getting
why you would break up.
I was overcome with anxiety
and ended up feeling
a righteous person like Ikumi
was annoying.
Before I knew it
and told her, "Would you
just leave me alone?"
Wow, that's
pretty crummy of you.
I don't disagree.
Okay, so as her ex-boyfriend
why'd you decide to come see her
at this point in time?
I saw a post that
she had written on social media
that she had a dream
where she was arrested
because of
a bodily injury incident.
Akagi?
You know the rumors, right?
That Dreaming tag thing.
After seeing this
It occurred to me
that leaving Ikumi alone
would be a bad idea
because she has a side of her
where she can
only support herself
by supporting someone else.
But it's not really something
adults would believe in.
Do you know
what date that'll happen?
Yeah. It says it'll be
on November 27th.
[SAKUTA]
The middle school reunion.
[TOUKO] What are you doing
at the university
on a Saturday?
Tell me what you did to Akagi.
All I did was
hand out presents to everyone.
Presents that they all
wished for themselves.
I didn't know Santa Claus
also gifts people poltergeists.
Excuse me?
The nature of
Ms. Akagi's puberty syndrome
is nothing of the sort.
#Dreaming. I'm guessing
that's your idea as well.
Well, I could say
everyone gets worried
about their futures, don't they?
So that's why you show them
their futures in their dreams.
It's not as though
I showed them myself.
They're having those dreams
on their own accord.
-Then one more thing.
-Hmm?
Can you give me
your cell phone number?
Uh...
Hey. What subject
do you study at university?
Statistical science.
Okay, then that
might be perfect.
If you're a STEM type
-Huh?
-Three, two, one
zero. [chuckles]
Okay. That's it.
Could you please show me
one more time?
That chance
was the only one you get.
Besides, it looks like
we have company.
[approaching footsteps]
Sorry for the wait.
Mai. Good work
on your supplemental class.
It was a makeup class
Sakuta, weren't you
just talking to someone?
Well, as you can see
[MAI] She was here?
Yeah.
You saw Akagi, right?
How was she?
A lot happened
Why is that?
Honestly
You can tell me on our way home.
Oh, about that, actually
there's something about Akagi
that I wanna confirm first.
-So I'm gonna visit my parents.
-Okay, then.
We can buy beaker puddings
at Yokohama Station.
What? You wanna come with me?
I only visited them once
in the spring, after all.
Come on, let's get going.
Uh...
[MAI] Hello.
Sorry to intrude.
Oh, yes. Hello there.
Sakuta, you didn't say
Mai was with you.
Hey, dear?
Apologies for coming to visit
without notice.
No, you're fine.
Welcome back, Sakuta.
It's good to see you.
And here's a souvenir.
Oh. Thank you.
Are you two
gonna stay for dinner?
I have to make more main dishes
and reset the rice cooker.
No, we won't be long.
-I'll help out.
-You will?
But are you sure
that's all right?
I'd like you to teach me
how you season food.
Oh, my.
It almost feels as though Sakuta
has found himself a bride.
By the way, Dad, do you remember
someone named Akagi?
We went to the same
middle school together.
Yeah, I remember her.
If I recall correctly
her mother was one of
the executives in the PTA.
Yes. I believe
she was a lawyer, wasn't she?
She was impressive, juggling
all that alongside work.
But why do you
bring this up so suddenly?
She goes to our university.
I realized I didn't
remember her all that well
so I was wondering
what she was like.
Oh, then I might have
just the thing
to jog your memory.
Mm?
Here, son.
Why, this...
When we were pulling out
winter clothes, we found this.
The moving service noticed
it was in the trash
to throw out when we moved
and they kindly
brought it over to me.
[♪ gentle music]
CLASS 3-1
[IKUMI] When I graduated
from grade school
I wrote in my graduation essay
"I want to become an adult
that can be of help to others."
In my first year
in preparing for and running
the sports festival
and cultural festival
My favorite memories
of the second year
are definitely
of the student council.
Student council work
as the secretary was new to me
but felt worthwhile.
In my third year
I couldn't do anything at all.
That's why
in my high school years
I want to make sure
I become an adult
that can be of help to others.
[SAKUTA] So Akagi's
biggest regret from back then
really was that
she couldn't save me.
MEMORIES OF MIDDLE SCHOOL LIFE
CLASS 3-1, SAKUTA AZUSAGAWA
[soft gasp]
[IKUMI] Do you remember
what you wrote
for your graduation essay
in middle school?
I mean
you wrote "Someday, I think
I'd like to reach kindness."
[SAKUTA] I didn't write
anything of the sort in here.
Here's what I think, Sakuta.
Life's purpose is to help us
learn to become kinder.
[SAKUTA] Those were words
that I heard from Shoko-san.
But back then
I hadn't clearly
remembered the fact
that I had even met her yet.
So there's no way
I could write that.
Could she have, perhaps...
[♪ closing theme song playing]
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF A NIGHTINGALE
Oh, Azusagawa
NEXT EPISODE
#7 FROM BEYOND HILBERT SPACE